Vision:
Our protagonist, Captain Proton (for now), has been teleported to an alternate dimension
after his spaceshift ran into a mysterious obelisk.  His crew members have also been 
teleported, scattered throuhout this unknown dimension.  There are only a few things about
this universe; it's all full of little robots, aliens, and booby traps.  However, Captain 
Proton has found him/herself with the control over gravity, and must escape and rescue 
his/her crew by solving difficult and dangerous mazes with this newfound power.  However, 
Captain Proton is looking to do more than just that:  Where did this obelisk come from and
what is its purpose?

The game takes place in an alternate dimension, where everything looks really 16-bit. 
There are spikes on a lot of surfaces, and various other deadly traps that you must avoid
to complete levels. There will also be little robots and aliens that (for now) will move 
in repeated motions.  The player must also avoid these along with the obstacles.  As a 
little feature, there can also be a boss at the end of certain levels that the player must
defeat in order to move on.  The environment is mostly static, but has some moving 
elements to add additional gameplay complexity. The music is rather chip-tune like.

We can have an infinite amount of levels, with checkpoints at the beginning/in the middle 
of each level. Each level will be one screen, we will start with 5, but can always 
increase the amount. Each screen is scrollable and essentially is a maze, which will not 
too hard or tedious to go through, and has obstacles everywhere.  The first level will be 
a tutorial of sorts, where the player either learns the mechanics, or dies a lot until 
they do. The 2nd level will have a little bit more of a challenging maze that may take 
some thought on how to solve, including how to get through differing obstacles. The 3rd 
level and onwards will increase the difficulty and require more advanced controls to get 
past it.  The outcome of each level will be progressing to the next one!  Each level may 
also introduce a new mechanic, such as moving blocks in the level, or other 
powerups/collectibles, but the main mechanic relies on Captain Proton's control over 
gravity. 

The basic mechanics of the game will be that the player character can move left/right, but
cannot jump. Instead of jumping, the player can flip the direction of gravity if they are 
standing on a surface. This is the main mechanic of the game.  The skill involved will 
mostly be dexterity/figuring out the correct path through a level. In order to still stick
to the theme of jumping around platforms, there will be mutiple "neon lines".  Whenever 
the player character hits these lines, his gravity switches.  This gives the same motion 
of jumping, just in a very unique way as you can "jump" upside down as well.  It also 
serves as part of the unique difficulty of this game.  The player must find a way (will 
be challenging, but not too hard to overcome) to use these "gravity shifting lines" to 
avoid obstacles and land to the next platform.  The main way that they player can die is 
by colliding with various amount of spikes or other static traps scattered throughout the 
level. Levels will stick to the overall theme/setting, perhaps deviating in color scheme 
and each having their own.  Other power ups may be introduced, but that is a concern for 
later.  There is no concept of HP, if you touch spikes, you die. You can always go back in
levels, and you can teleport to any checkpoint that you have already passed from the main
menu. The player has an infinite amount of lives, and their high-score is based on how 
many times they die, less being better.

Game Plan:
Milestones:
Alpha: Oct 5th: Main Menu, with barebones 1st level. (2 platforms top and bottom of the
screen, can move in-between them)

Beta: Nov 2nd: Full 1st and 2nd levels (spikes and all). 

Gold: Dec 14th: All 5 levels minimum with checkpoints, possibly more by changing it to a 
2-leveled structure. (multiple “worlds” with ~5 levels each).

Responsibilities:
Tristan: Technical Lead, I will build the base of the engine, and help with level 
creation. I will also submit group files.
Brian: I will design how the levels look like and build them.  I will also help with the 
engine development (with Tristan) and art/graphics (with Anthony).  
Anthony: Art & music hunter, I will create or pull graphic/sound resources from the 
internet. I will work with Brian on level design as well as helping out Tristan on 
implementing the game mechanics.

Risks:
The game is not fun/is too difficult: we will rebuild levels to lower the difficulty/ 
make the game more “fun” based on feedback from friends + peers in the class.
Someone finds their role too difficult: We will meet to discuss this, and see if we can 
shift responsibilities around so that everyone’s life is easier.
The codebase becomes difficult to read/manage, possibly impacting performance: We will 
schedule a large block of time to go through and attempt to refactor the codebase, making 
it more efficient. To mitigate this, we will also stick to a strict coding style 
(clang-format llvm). 

Technical Decisions: 
We will be using C++ to build this game.
We will be structuring the backend of our game using entity based design.
We will be using git over bitbucket for source/version control.
Team communication will be done over facebook chat.
We will not insure cross-platform compatibility. 


